# CourtSystem

##  Description: 
A civilized society encourages its citizens to solve any conflict arises among them through the court system. However, with the increase in the number of conflicts referred to courts to be solved through judicial adjudication. The time taken to reach an end gradually increased, to a point where citizens looked upon the judicial adjudicatory system as an archaic form of adjudication. So as the time -consuming process, the traditional court system consists of several defects that are inherent to it; including, but not limited to less opportunities for the marginalized groups to access, high costs, use of pressure; inducement, and threat in investigations by the law enforcement authorities. Though, methods of alternative disputes resolution were introduced to reduce the huge backlog of cases. Alternative dispute resolution methods are only an alternative, not a substitute for the traditional judiciary system. On the other hand, all other drawbacks except reducing delays, were unsolved by alternative resolution methods for decades. Due to the fact that alternative dispute resolution methods are not a substitute for the traditional method, the most favorable solutions for the mentioned issues lie with mechanisms that increase the efficiency of the judicial system..

The massive development in the information technology field paved the way for new innovative measures that all of the mentioned issues were capable of satisfactorily answered. Even though, the developed states were swift to adopt new technology to courts. The developing counties like Sri Lanka are far behind in introducing technology to the judiciary system. In Sri Lanka, the current backlog of cases is massive and the system is costly; due to those, access to justice has been limited. The author has elaborated in detail with substantial evidence the reasons for those issues in the report. 

As a remedy for current issues prevailing in the court system; the author proposes an interconnected e-court system. The proposed system allows most of the government authorities involved from an institution of a case to the end; to deliver all its tasks through this system. As a result, time taken is reduced, costs are reduced, and as the speed of flow of information between authorities increases the possibility of government authorities acting in a manner that is detrimental to citizens is also eliminated. 
  
##  Tools & Technologies: 
   - Frontend -> Angular, Akita, TypeScript
   - Backend -> .NET, sqlite, swagger
